README.md, before:

# Fundamental Analyzer (React + Vite + TypeScript)

## 1) Project overview

Fundamental Analyzer ingests pasted TIKR-style financial exports and generates a health dashboard with scorecards, category diagnostics, and industry-aware context.

## 2) Quick start

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open the local URL printed by Vite.

Build and preview:

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

Quality checks:

```bash
npm run typecheck
npm run lint
npm run format
npm run test
npm run test:coverage
```

## 3) Deployment notes (static hosting)

- This is a static Vite build (`dist/`).
- Deploy `dist` to GitHub Pages, Netlify, Vercel static output, S3, or any static server.
- `fundamental-analyzer.html` remains as a compatibility redirect to `/`.

## 4) Architecture overview (layered / hexagonal)

- **Domain**: scoring engine, metrics primitives, industry datasets/heuristics, translator.
- **Application**: parse input, run analysis use-case, produce UI VM.
- **Ports**: storage and logger interfaces.
- **Infrastructure**: localStorage adapter (with migration), console logger, fixture loader.
- **UI**: React page/hooks and styles.

## 5) Folder map

- `src/app`: bootstrap + composition root.
- `src/domain`: pure/business-oriented modules and datasets.
- `src/application`: orchestration use-cases.
- `src/ports`: interfaces.
- `src/infrastructure`: adapters/implementations.
- `src/ui`: React page/hooks/viewmodels/styles.
- `test-data`: manual fixture markdown files.

## 6) Data flow

1. User pastes TIKR markdown into textarea.
2. `parseInput` normalizes tables into internal section rows.
3. `runAnalysis` computes metric items, signals, grades, and summaries.
4. Dashboard HTML VM is produced and rendered in the UI.
5. Industry selection overlays industry-relevant KPIs/valuation hints.

## 7) i18n system

- Dictionaries live in `src/domain/i18n`.
- Language fallback strategy: selected language -> English -> key.
- Persistence key preserved: `fundamentalAnalyzerLang`.
- Storage migration runs on bootstrap to ensure supported language values.

## 8) How to extend

### Add a metric

- Add scoring logic in `src/domain/metrics/scoring.ts` using existing section/item pattern.
- Optionally add typed helper shape in `src/domain/metrics/types.ts`.

### Add a scoring rule / threshold

- Add thresholds in industry/profile mapping logic and threshold utilities in the domain layer.

### Add an industry profile / heuristic

- Extend `INDUSTRY_PROFILES` and `GICS_INDUSTRIES` in `src/domain/industry/data.ts`.
- Ensure the selected industry code maps to the intended heuristic profile.

### Add translation key / language

- Add key in language dictionaries.
- Add type-safe key support in `src/domain/i18n/keys.ts`.
- Update language selector in `AnalyzerPage` if adding a new language.

## 9) Troubleshooting

- **No table parsed**: ensure pasted content contains markdown rows beginning with `|` and includes date headers.
- **Blank dashboard**: run `npm run typecheck` and check browser console for runtime issues.

## 10) Manual QA checklist

- [ ] Language switching updates UI and persists after refresh.
- [ ] Analyzer accepts a valid TIKR sample and renders dashboard.
- [ ] Section collapse/expand and “open/close all” work.
- [ ] Industry selector search filters by name/code and updates selection.
- [ ] Industry selector changes profile panel output.
- [ ] `fundamental-analyzer.html` redirects correctly.

## 11) Environment/network troubleshooting

- If `npm install` fails with `E403` or `ENETUNREACH`, verify your npm proxy and registry settings:
  - `npm config get registry` should normally be `https://registry.npmjs.org/`.
  - Check environment variables (`HTTP_PROXY`, `HTTPS_PROXY`, `npm_config_http_proxy`, `npm_config_https_proxy`).
- In restricted corporate/CI networks, you may need an internal npm mirror/allowlist for scoped packages (e.g. `@eslint/*`, `@types/*`).
- When dependencies are unavailable, run static review checks and retry in a network-enabled CI runner.

## 12) Automated testing & coverage notes

- Unit/integration tests are run with **Vitest**.
- UI tests use **Testing Library** with `jsdom` (`@testing-library/react`, `@testing-library/user-event`).
- Coverage command: `npm run test:coverage`.

Current focus:

- High coverage on application/infrastructure logic and selected UI behavior (industry search, analyze flow, i18n hook behavior).
- Legacy migrated modules (`scripts.js`, `locales.js`, `industry-data.js`) and type-only contracts (`types.ts`, `ports/*`) are intentionally not forced to 100% because they are either non-runtime or retained for compatibility.

Recommended CI gate:

- Keep `typecheck`, `lint`, `test`, and `build` mandatory.
- Track coverage trend over time and prioritize critical-path runtime modules first.

Commit message:

Apply analyzer sanity fixes to canonical scoring engine

README.md, after:

# Fundamental Analyzer (React + Vite + TypeScript)

## 1) Project overview

Fundamental Analyzer ingests pasted TIKR-style financial exports and generates a health dashboard with scorecards, category diagnostics, and industry-aware context.

## 2) Quick start

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

Open the local URL printed by Vite.

Build and preview:

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

Quality checks:

```bash
npm run typecheck
npm run lint
npm run format
npm run test
npm run test:coverage
```

## 3) Deployment notes (static hosting)

- This is a static Vite build (`dist/`).
- Deploy `dist` to GitHub Pages, Netlify, Vercel static output, S3, or any static server.
- `fundamental-analyzer.html` remains as a compatibility redirect to `/`.

## 4) Architecture overview (layered / hexagonal)

- **Domain**: scoring engine, metrics primitives, industry datasets/heuristics, translator.
- **Application**: parse input, run analysis use-case, produce UI VM.
- **Ports**: storage and logger interfaces.
- **Infrastructure**: localStorage adapter (with migration), console logger, fixture loader.
- **UI**: React page/hooks and styles.

## 5) Folder map

- `src/app`: bootstrap + composition root.
- `src/domain`: pure/business-oriented modules and datasets.
- `src/application`: orchestration use-cases.
- `src/ports`: interfaces.
- `src/infrastructure`: adapters/implementations.
- `src/ui`: React page/hooks/viewmodels/styles.
- `test-data`: manual fixture markdown files.

## 6) Data flow

1. User pastes TIKR markdown into textarea.
2. `parseInput` normalizes tables into internal section rows.
3. `runAnalysis` computes metric items, signals, grades, and summaries.
4. Dashboard HTML VM is produced and rendered in the UI.
5. Industry selection overlays industry-relevant KPIs/valuation hints.

## 7) i18n system

- Dictionaries live in `src/domain/i18n`.
- Language fallback strategy: selected language -> English -> key.
- Persistence key preserved: `fundamentalAnalyzerLang`.
- Storage migration runs on bootstrap to ensure supported language values.

## 8) How to extend

### Add a metric

- Add scoring logic in `src/domain/metrics/scoring.ts` using existing section/item pattern.
- Optionally add typed helper shape in `src/domain/metrics/types.ts`.

### Add a scoring rule / threshold

- Add thresholds in industry/profile mapping logic and threshold utilities in the domain layer.

### Add an industry profile / heuristic

- Extend `INDUSTRY_PROFILES` and `GICS_INDUSTRIES` in `src/domain/industry/data.ts`.
- Ensure the selected industry code maps to the intended heuristic profile.

### Add translation key / language

- Add key in language dictionaries.
- Add type-safe key support in `src/domain/i18n/keys.ts`.
- Update language selector in `AnalyzerPage` if adding a new language.

## 9) Troubleshooting

- **No table parsed**: ensure pasted content contains markdown rows beginning with `|` and includes date headers.
- **Blank dashboard**: run `npm run typecheck` and check browser console for runtime issues.

## 10) Manual QA checklist

- [ ] Language switching updates UI and persists after refresh.
- [ ] Analyzer accepts a valid TIKR sample and renders dashboard.
- [ ] Section collapse/expand and “open/close all” work.
- [ ] Industry selector search filters by name/code and updates selection.
- [ ] Industry selector changes profile panel output.
- [ ] `fundamental-analyzer.html` redirects correctly.

## 11) Environment/network troubleshooting

- If `npm install` fails with `E403` or `ENETUNREACH`, verify your npm proxy and registry settings:
  - `npm config get registry` should normally be `https://registry.npmjs.org/`.
  - Check environment variables (`HTTP_PROXY`, `HTTPS_PROXY`, `npm_config_http_proxy`, `npm_config_https_proxy`).
- In restricted corporate/CI networks, you may need an internal npm mirror/allowlist for scoped packages (e.g. `@eslint/*`, `@types/*`).
- When dependencies are unavailable, run static review checks and retry in a network-enabled CI runner.

## 12) Automated testing & coverage notes

- Unit/integration tests are run with **Vitest**.
- UI tests use **Testing Library** with `jsdom` (`@testing-library/react`, `@testing-library/user-event`).
- Coverage command: `npm run test:coverage`.

Current focus:

- High coverage on application/infrastructure logic and selected UI behavior (industry search, analyze flow, i18n hook behavior).
- Legacy migrated modules (`scripts.js`, `locales.js`, `industry-data.js`) and type-only contracts (`types.ts`, `ports/*`) are intentionally not forced to 100% because they are either non-runtime or retained for compatibility.
- **Single source of truth** for analyzer logic is `src/domain/metrics/scoring.ts`; any behavioral change should be implemented there first. `scripts.js` is kept only for legacy compatibility paths.

Recommended CI gate:

- Keep `typecheck`, `lint`, `test`, and `build` mandatory.
- Track coverage trend over time and prioritize critical-path runtime modules first.
